looking back on 8-bit baseball games can
kind of be a hazy endeavor as truly
great as many of them were a lot of
those games tend to blur together
he had the ones with a camera behind the
plate the RBI baseball variety and he
had the ones with a camera behind the
mound like bases-loaded just about every
game from that era meets one of those
two specifications and for the most part
they all play about the same if you have
a poor memory or you've taken one too
many two seamers to the skull you might
remember this game as RBI baseball they
actually even if your brains functioning
flawlessly you might still remember this
game as RBI baseball but it's actually
baseball simulator 1000 we wished for
the Nintendo Entertainment System in
1989 baseball simulator 1000 was
developed by culture brain the studio
behind NES classics like kungfu heroes
flying dragon and one of my favorite
RPGs little ninja brothers but
unfortunately for American gamers that
Golden Age has ended since the closing
of its us branch in the 1990s culture
brains games have rarely made it to the
States fortunately we have games like
this to remember them by baseball
simulator 1000 may look a lot like RBI
baseball and kind of play a lot like RBI
baseball but this game is also known for
a few nasty pitches of its own
so again gameplay wise baseball
simulator 1000 players just like RBI
Baseball fans of 10 jhin's classic 8-bit
baseball game should be immediately
comfortable with culture brands game
because apart from some minor subtleties
they're basically the same game but one
of the
that sets baseball simulator 1000 apart
is its emphasis on customization now
baseball simulator 1000 wasn't the first
NES game to allow you to create players
and customize rosters SN K's baseball
stars beat baseball simulators throw to
the plate so to speak but features like
that were groundbreaking in 1989
nonetheless and baseball simulator 1000
had a nice set of customization features
in its own right in fact you can see I'm
adjusting this team's lineup to match
that of my favorite baseball team's
current lineup player names and
statistics can each be adjusted as well
as their abilities within the allotted
point values you can actually take that
team out onto the field and then play a
season with them which again is a very
cool feature for an NES baseball game
baseball simulator 1000 also tracks
statistics during your season such as
batting average in homeruns and wins I
mean it didn't save all those stats
those functions use the battery inside
the game cartridge and by now a vast
majority of those batteries are probably
dead effectively stripping the game's
ability to save all those meticulous
customizations
fortunately the game's other
distinguishing feature requires no
battery pack in what kind of seems
contrary to the game's title baseball
simulator 1000 also offers a very
unsimilar altro mode in which players
actually have special powers they might
be able to turn the ball into a missile
that knocks opponents over hits may
actually cause earthquakes it's a fun
addition although it is kind of broken
thanks to some balance issues
like the best baseball games from this
era baseball simulator 1000 is all about
its core baseball gameplay it's still
fun to this day it still controls well
and it's still easy to pick up and lose
several hours playing it's not quite up
to the level of other 8-bit baseball
icons but culture brains baseball
simulator is still batting a thousand
for a reason